# Body

## Standard properties

Error responses from publiq APIs always include at least the 3 following properties defined by the [RFC7807](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7807) standard:

*   `type` - A URL used to identify the problem. You can use this to differentiate between errors inside your application. Make sure to always compare the full URL and not just the last part, since some APIs might share similar yet different error types.
*   `title` - A short, human-readable summary of the problem type.
*   `status` - The HTTP status code generated by the origin server for this occurrence of the problem.

Sometimes the following optional properties are also included:

*   `detail` - A human-readable summary about this specific instance of the problem.

For example:

```json
{
  "type": "https://api.publiq.be/probs/uitpas/invalid-uitpasnumber",
  "title": "UiTPAS number invalid",
  "status": "400",
  "detail": "UiTPAS numbers must be exactly 13 digits."
}
```

## Extensions

Aside from the standardized properties above, the RFC7807 spec also allows for custom properties. The following extra properties are sometimes used on publiq APIs to provide more information in specific situations.

### schemaErrors

In the case of validation of JSON bodies in requests, error responses can include multiple validation errors at the same time in a `schemaErrors` property. 

This property will contain a list with objects that have a `jsonPointer` that conforms to the [RFC6901](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6901) standard. This pointer indicates which specific JSON property inside the request body was invalid or caused a problem. 

The objects also contain an `error` property with a human-readable (but often technical) explanation of why that specific part of the given JSON is invalid.

For example:

```json
{
  "type": "https://api.publiq.be/probs/body/invalid-data",
  "title": "Invalid body data",
  "status": "400",
  "schemaErrors": [
    {
      "jsonPointer": "/tariffId",
      "error": "Required property (tariffId) missing."
    },
    {
      "jsonPointer": "/numberOfTickets",
      "error": "The data (string) must match the type: integer"
    },
  ]
}
```
